---
title: "Delivering Fairness in Human Resources AI: Mutual Information to the Rescue"
collection: talks
typelocation: "International"
type: "Oral Presentation"
permalink: /talks/AACL-2022
venue: "Proceedings of the 2nd Conference of the Asia-Pacific Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 12th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (Volume 1: Long Papers) (AACL 2022)"
date: 2021-09-28
location: "Virtual Event"
---
Automatic  language  processing  is  used frequently in the Human Resources (HR) sector for automated candidate sourcing and evaluation of resumes. These models often use pretrained language models where it is difficult to know if possible biases exist. Recently, Mutual Information (MI) methods have demonstrated notable performance in obtaining representations agnostic to sensitive variables such as gender or ethnicity. However, accessing these variables can sometimes be challenging, and their use is  prohibited in some jurisdictions. These factors can make detecting and mitigating biases challenging. In this context, we propose to minimize the MI between a candidate’s name and a latent representation of their CV or short biography. This method may mitigate bias from sensitive variables without requiringthe collection of these variables. We evaluate this methodology by first projecting the name representation into a smaller space to prevent potential MI minimization problems in high dimensions.

TLDR : Mutual Information using as source a name representation of the candidate to remove sensitive information from inner representation without the need to collect protected variable.

#	<a href="https://aclanthology.org/2022.aacl-main.64/" target="_blank">Download link</a>

